a man who isolates himself seeks his own
desire he rages against all wise
judgment a fool has no delight in
understanding but in expressing his own
heart when the wicked comes contempt
comes also and with dishonor comes
reproach the words of a man's mouth are
deep waters the wellspring of wisdom is
a flowing brook it is not good to show
partiality to the wicked or to overthrow
the righteous in judgment
the fools lips enter into contention in
his mouth cause for blows a fools mouth
is his destruction and his lips are the
snare of his soul the words of the tale
bearer are like tasty trifles and they
go down into the inmost body he who is
slothful in his work is a brother to him
who is a Great destroyer the name of the
Lord is a strong tower the righteous run
to it and are safe the rich man's wealth
is his strong City and like a high wall
in his own esteem
before destruction the heart of a man is
haughty and before honor is humility
he who answers a matter before he hears
it is his folly and shame to him the
spirits of a man will sustain him in
sickness but who can bear a broken
spirit the heart of the prudent acquires
knowledge and the ear of the wise seeks
knowledge a man's gift makes room for
him and brings him before great men the
first one to plead his cause seems right
until his neighbor comes and examines
him casting Lots causes contentions to
cease and keeps the mighty apart a
brother offended is harder to win than a
strong City and contentions are like the
bars of a castle a man's stomach shall
be satisfied from the fruit of his mouth
from the produce of his lips he shall be
filled
death and life are in the power of the
tongue and those who love it will eat
its fruit he who finds a wife finds a
good thing and obtains favor from the
Lord
the poor man uses entreaties but the
rich answers roughly a man who has
friends must himself be friendly but
there is a friend who sticks closer than
a brother